Think about how the particular exercise is making you feel. If something doesn't feel right, stop immediately and seek medical advice.
Try slow stretches and go through the motions of your sport or activity before starting. Cool down with slow stretching.
Have at least one recovery day each week to rest. If you are experiencing pain, rest until the pain has gone.
Try other sports and exercises to reduce the risk of overtraining.
If a joint is prone to injury, consider strapping or taping it before exercising. Even better, see an exercise physiologist or physiotherapist to obtain a program to strengthen the injured area and get advice on proper taping techniques.
You can lose around one and a half litres of fluid for every hour of exercise; so drink water before, during and after a session.
Take it easier in hot weather and wear clothing and sunscreen to protect yourself from the elements.
Try to get the technique right from the beginning, to ensure you are using your muscles correctly.
Make sure your shoes and equipment fit properly and are right for the activity. Look after your equipment and check it regularly for safety.
Take a friend or your dog, stick to well-lit areas and wear bright or light-reflective clothing so drivers can see you.
People who don't regularly exercise may lose up to 80% of their muscle strength by age 65.
Regular exercise helps lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels. Two major risk factors for heart disease.
Improve your mental health and mood with an exercise routine!
Exercise keeps your metabolism elevated even after your workout, and continues to burn more calories even at rest.
The average person walks about 7,500 steps per day. If you stick to that average step count and live to be 80 years old, you'll walk about 110,000 miles in your lifetime.
You use 200 muscles to take a single step forward.
The pressure on your feet is equal to about 3-4 times your body weight with each step while running.
Your heart is the hardest working muscle in your body. It beats approximately 100,000 times per day, pumping almost 2,000 gallons of blood.
During physical activity, you breathe more to keep oxygen levels in your blood at appropriate levels.
The knee is the largest and most complex joint in your body which makes it most likely to be injured.
Fat and muscle are completely different types of tissue. Muscle cannot turn into fat.
If you can't speak a few words without taking a breath, you may be exercising too intensely.
Being dehydrated reduces exercise performance.
Opposite of people who cross-train, people who do the same daily type of exercise regularly are more prone to injury.
Studies indicate that children's physical activity levels correlate closely with those of their parents.
Music improves workout performance. Listening to music while exercising can improve work out performance by 15%.
Exercising improves brain performance. Cardiovascular exercise helps create new brain cells. This enhances brainpower and brain activity.
Working out sharpens your memory. Exercising increases the production of cells that are responsible for learning and memory.
Running burns calories! If you run at a 10 minute per mile pace, you can burn 104.3 calories per mile.
More muscle mass = burning more fat while resting. The more muscle mass you have, the more fat your body burns while resting.
Exercise prevents signs of ageing. If you exercise 3 times a week for 45 minutes, you can help prevent signs of ageing.
A pound of muscle burns three times more calories than a pound of fat.
Exercising regularly helps boost your immune system. This means you'll get sick less often than people who don't exercise.
Exercising increases the number of endorphins that are released into your body and increases productivity.
Sweat releases dirt through your pores, which reduces acne and breakouts. Workouts improve the overall look of your skin.
Exercising can help ease your mind and rejuvenate your body. Working out will make you feel great and boost your confidence.
If you are someone who has trouble sleeping or staying asleep, then working out is your answer. Exercise helps to clear your head and helps you feel relaxed.
If you work out on an empty stomach you can actually burn more fat.
If your goal is performance-based, you're not going to have enough energy to go all-out.
Sweating not only keeps you cool, it removes toxins from your body too.
Women simply can't build muscle in the same way as men due to the fact they have lower levels of testosterone.
It's common knowledge that cigarettes are bad for you, but did you know that inactivity can have the same effect on your body? In terms of premature death, physical in-activity is just second to smoking!
Exercise is said to boost self-confidence, improve your skin condition. So it makes you look good and you genuinely feel good too.
Although there are many benefits to stretching before exercise, stretching before running actually burns 5% less calories than runners that didn't stretch!
One misconception is the only way to get definition in your muscles is from lifting light weights at a higher rate, which isn't true, muscle definition comes from having low body fat and muscle mass.
If you train with light weights only, you're not going to build muscle. The more muscle that you build, the more fat you'll be able to burn, as well as calories.
Actually, soreness is a chemical response to inflammation from ripping your muscle fibres. If you don't feel sore, it can mean you worked out just right.
Want to lose some weight?  Be certain that no matter how hard you exercise, you can't out-train a bad diet.
The top forms of exercise for burning calories is running and cycling.  However, your exact calorie burn will be related to your weight, the intensity and the duration.
Exercise improves your attractiveness!
A good warm-up prepares your body for the challenges of working out, and can help to reduce the risk of injury.
No matter what your key training goals are, including strength training will help you to reach them sooner.
Carbohydrates are the primary fuel source for most workouts. 
It's important to be hydrated to make the most of your workout because your muscles are actually around 70 percent water!
Good sleep can help to maximise the benefits of your training. 
Exercising with friends is a great way to have fun while training and will also keep you accountable to your training schedule and fitness goals.
Protein and fats are important macronutrients for women who do strength training. 
Be mindful of your current level of ability, and include active recovery when you need additional time for your muscles to bounce back from a heavy training session. 
Rest is so important to your training schedule! A proper rest day can actually help to boost your performance for both cardio and strength training.
When you start doing any new form of training, consistency is the key to improvement.
Music is great for motivation during your workout.
Schedule in exercise on a regular basis, and stick to your plan. 
Cardio doesn't have to mean running or doing burpees — low-impact cardio is very beneficial too. 
If you need a fast workout that packs a punch, grab a jump rope!
Low-intensity cardio helps to build endurance by increasing glycogen stores — the readily available energy found in the muscles. 
Cardio isn't an activity that you have to do indoors or in the gym. 
Interval training can help to make cardio workouts more challenging.
Allow for 5-10 minutes of stretching after each workout. This helps your heart rate return to normal and can prevent injury. 
If you aren't ready to join a gym, you can get started with strength training at home. 
When lifting weights, all parts of the movement are important.
It's a myth that lifting weights will make you bulk up! 
If you plan to lift weights and do cardio on the same day, try to do cardio after your resistance session to get the most out of your strength training workout.
As you work against the resistance, the hardest part of the movement, breathe out.
A superset contains two dedicated exercises that focus on specific areas of the body.
If you reach a workout plateau and find it's difficult to increase your weights once you reach a certain point, try adding variable resistance.
Choose a yoga style that suits your needs!
To practice yoga at home, the first thing you should invest in is a non-slip yoga mat.
When practising yoga, choose clothing that you feel comfortable in and that allows you to move freely. 
Adding meditation to your yoga practice helps you to be present in the moment with your mind and body.
While yoga is a valuable tool for dealing with life’s struggles, it can introduce new sensations to your body.
SWEAT includes Express workouts, and even a short walk is so much better than doing nothing.
The best thing about HIIT workouts is that you can get creative!
Challenge yourself with AMRAP or Tabata workouts!
You can challenge yourself with high-intensity resistance training (HIRT), by simply adding weights (the resistance!) to your workout. 
During summer you might enjoy changing up your workout routine by using your backyard or heading to a park. 
Your home gym may be simply a space where you can lay out a towel or mat, or you may have some other equipment.
A highly effective at-home training routine will target ALL areas of your body.
Combining cardio and strength exercises will build your endurance.
When you're working out at home, you might not always have the exact piece of equipment recommended for an exercise.
Gym machines are great for building a base strength when you are a fitness beginner — you can gain confidence knowing that the weight is supported by the machine.
Write down your 1RM, or personal best, for each exercise, and aim to improve these numbers.
Take the time to understand a few of the terms used in fitness that you might not have heard of before. 
If you ever feel uncertain about using a specific piece of gym equipment, don’t be afraid to ask for assistance.
When you get caught up in a new workout routine, it’s easy to forget to pause and reflect on how far you've come. 
Whether you are exercising for weight loss, muscle gain or endurance, tracking your progress can make a big difference in motivation.
It's important to keep proper form during strength exercises or weight lifting to avoid injury.
It's important to warm up and cool down properly to prepare your muscles for the workout ahead, and to speed up recovery and avoid injury.
Even the smallest bouts of exercise can benefit your health.
People who are physically inactive can lose as much as 3% to 5% of their muscle mass per decade after age 30.
45 minutes of exercise 3 times a week can result in cells that show fewer signs of aging.